# Securing-LIN-Insights-from-Ultrasonic-Sensor-Data-Impact-on-CAN-Protocol

Autonomous driving technologies are dependent on external sensors that transmit data through the Local Interconnect Network (LIN), an area of research that has not yet been thoroughly investigated. This study examines the LIN vulnerabilities within a vehicle, emphasizing the security threats posed by unauthorized data injections and how they affect the Controller Area Network (CAN). The study uses ultrasonic sensor data as a case study to explore the intricate relationship between LIN and CAN in a real-world automotive environment. To counter these security threats, a lightweight, reliable, deep learning-based Intrusion Detection System (IDS) is developed to detect and mitigate the risks. The feasibility of the research was examined on a testbed, and data was collected from a real-world environment based on practical scenarios. As a result, the study observed the effects of a LIN attack on CAN, the backbone of the vehicular network. LIN vulnerabilities can cause disruptions to the entire In-Vehicle Network (IVN) ecosystem. Therefore, a dedicated security mechanism is required to secure IVN regarding LIN data. This study introduces an IDS that considers these consequential effects. The study highlights the critical need for enhanced security in-vehicle systems to effectively mitigate significant vulnerabilities within the LIN protocol. This would safeguard the entire ecosystems of the In-Vehicle Network (IVN) and the Controller Area Network (CAN) against possible disruptions brought on by unauthorized data injections.
